# Command - `d`

> Deleting with `d`

The `d` command is unique compared to everything we've learned so far. It can be combined with various characters to delete text. These various characters are referred to as *motions*. These are other keys. This makes it a powerful command. We'll see what that means in the exercises below. You use it from normal mode.

To remember this command, think `d` for *delete*.

## Exercise 01  - Delete Me

The goal of the first exercise is to teach you how to use `d` to delete lines.

1. Move down to the first line.
2. Hit `dd`. Move down and do the same until all four lines "Delete Me" are deleted.
3. Move down to the numbered list.
4. This time hit `ndd`, but replace `n` with the number of lines you want to delete.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

Delete Me
Delete Me
Delete Me
Delete Me

1. Delete Me
2. Delete Me
3. Delete Me
4. Delete Me

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Sometimes it's faster to move around and use `dd` than to count and use it with a number. You'll learn which works best for you with practice.
- Look down at your fingers briefly to identify which finger you're using to hit the `d` key. For me, I use my left middle finger.

## Exercise 02 - Delete Words

The goal of the second exercise is to teach you how to delete words with `d`.

You wrote this sentence in your daily notes, but it has some duplicate words. Can you fix it?

1. Move down the sentence with the commands you know.
2. When you arrive at a duplicate word, like "is", hit `dw`.
3. If you want to delete multiple words, use `dnw` and replace `n` with the number.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

Today is is a beautiful day to be alive and learning. fdaslfd fdsafsad. Can you believe it?

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Pay attention to whitespace and punctuation. Notice, is the whitespace after a word always deleted? Is punctuation part of the word or separate?

## Exercise 03  - Deleting Characters

The goal of the third exercise is to teach you how to use the `d` command to delete multiple characters.

Remember the `x` command? It *exes* out a character. But what if you have more than one character? Let's learn!

1. Start the cursor on the first line.
2. Move to the first "o" in the word "hello".
3. Hit `d3x` (see the pattern?).
4. Follow the same pattern for the remaining lines.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

This word helloooo has three extra o's.

This coffeeeeeeee has six extra e's at the end.

This sentence has seven extra periods........

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- As you can see, this command can oftentimes be faster than hitting `x` multiple times.

## Exercise 04 - Delete Inside

The goal of the fourth exercise is to introduce you to one of the most powerful motions in Vim using the `d` command combined with a motion. We'll look at two motions using the `d` + `i` and `d` + `a`.

When it comes to motions, think `command` + `i` (inside) or `a` (all) + `thing`. For example, "delete all of the double-quotes" would be `da"`. Think of the `t` as short for HTML tag, or simply tag.

There is a lot packed into this exercise so hang on!

1. Start with the cursor on the first line.
2. Move the cursor to the ".
3. Hit `di"`, then hit `i` then type in your favorite color.
4. Move to the second line.
5. Move to the second " (after the 3).
6. Hit `da"`, then hit `i` and type your favorite number (without quotes).
7. Move to the function line.
8. Move to the (.
9. Hit `di(`.
10. Move to the last line.
11. Move to the first >.
12. Hit `dit`, hit `i`, then type in your name.

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
const favColor = "red";

const favNumber = "23";

function friendlyGreeting(greeting, name) {
    return "Hello friend";
}

const someHtml = `<h1>hello world</h1>`
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

-  As you can see, it doesn't matter where the cursor is, as long as it's on the `thing` or inside of it.
   -  For example, with the favColor, you can use `di"` by having the cursor on the first ", inside the " or on the last " and the command still works as expected. Try it out!

## Exercise 05 - Reviewing

The goal of the fifth exercise is to reflect on what you've learned so far.

Oh no! There are some BUGs in our in file. Can you remove them?

1. Move down to the first command.
2. Delete the BUG using the `dw` command.
3. Do the same until you've eliminated all the BUGs.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

- `h` BUG move left toward the *house*
- `j` move down BUG (*jumping* off a ledge)
- `k` move up (*kicking* a soccer ball upward)
- `l` move right (*left*to right, like English)
- `i` let me *insert* text BUG
- `a` lets me insert text *after* the BUG cursor
- `I` BUG let me *Initially* insert text
- `A` let me BUG *Append* text
- `x` let BUG me *ex-out* a character
- `r` let me *replace* a character
- `o` insert a line below the *original* line
- `O` insert BUG a line *Over* the current line
- `w` move word BUG by word
- `e` move *end* of word by end of word
- `b` move *backwards* word by word
- `a` let me insert BUG text *after* the cursor
- `d` lets me *delete* text

Text for exercise ends -->

## Command Complete 🎉

Congrats! You did it ✅.

You have mastered the `d` command.

16/22 commands done.

### Reflecting

Reflecting on what you've learned so far, answer these questions out loud and pretend you're explaining them to someone who is new to Vim.

- What is the `d` command used for?
- In which mode do you use it?
- What are a few examples of ways you can combine it with motions?