# Command - `c`

> Changing text with `c`

Similar to the `d` command, the `c` command is also unique. It can be combined with motions and lets you change text. You use it from normal mode and enter into insert mode.

To remember this command, think `c` for *change*.

## Exercise 01  - Change Me

The goal of the first exercise  is to teach you how to change multiple lines with `c`.

1. Move down to the first line.
2. Hit `cc`.  Write "New me".
3. Do the same with all four lines.
4. Move down to the numbered list.
5. This time hit `ncc`, but replace `n` with the number of lines you want to change and write "No more lines".

<!-- Text for exercise starts

Replace me
Replace me
Replace me
Replace me

1. Replace Me
2. Replace Me
3. Replace Me
4. Replace Me

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- This might be used less often, but it's handy to know.
- Notice a pattern between `cc` and `dd`? To affect a single line, the command is repeated!
  - To affect multiple lines, we add `n` then the command repeated.
- Look down at your fingers briefly to identify which finger you're using to hit the `c` key. For me, I use my left index finger.

## Exercise 02 - Change Words

The goal of the second exercise is to teach you how to change words with `c`.

These sentences don't make sense. Can you fix that?

1. Start on the first line.
2. With the cursor on the word "Red", hit `cw`.
3. Type in your favorite color, then hit `esc`.
4. Change the other words to make these make sense: animal, decrease, 2x.

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

Red is my favorite animal.

Vim in VSCode is going to decrease my speed because I can work 2x faster.

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- You can also change back-word with `cb`, but it might feel awkward. Try it out, and notice where the cursor has to be for it to work properly.

## Exercise 03  - Change Inside and All

The goal of the third exercise is to practice changing inside (`ci`) and all (`ca`) inside some JavaScript code.

1. Move the cursor to the first {.
2. Hit `ci{`.
3. Hit return and write `return "Hello world"`.
4. Move to the first back-tick "`" in the tinyHouse function.
5. Hit `ca``.
6. Type "red couch" (including quotes).
7. Move to the `return` statement and put the cursor on the {.
8. Type `ca{`.
9. Write "tiny house" (including quotes).

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
function helloWorld() {
    let n = 1;

    let x = 2;
}

function tinyHouse() {
    let couch = `blue couch`;

    let floor = "wood";

    let space = "a lot";

    return {
        x: 4,
        y: 5,
    }
}
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Remember, `ca` like "change all" and `ci` like "change inside".

## Exercise 04 - Redo Delete Inside

The goal of this exercise is to see how we can use less commands with `ci` vs. `di` + `i` in certain scenarios.

1. Start with the cursor on the first line.
2. Move the cursor to the ".
3. Hit `ci"`, then type in your favorite color.
4. Move to the second line.
5. Move to the second " (after the 3).
6. Hit `ca"`,  type your favorite number (without quotes).
7. Move to the function line.
8. Move to the (.
9. Hit `ci(`.
10. Move to the last line.
11. Move to the first >.
12. Hit `cit`, then type in your name.

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
const favColor = "red";

const favNumber = "23";

function friendlyGreeting(greeting, name) {
    return "Hello friend";
}

const someHtml = `<h1>hello world</h1>`
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- See how these types of scenarios make more sense for `c` vs. `d`? Keep that in mind as you practice these in the real world.

## Exercise 05 - Reviewing

The goal of the fifth exercise is to reflect on what you've learned so far.

The commands have been mixed up again. Can you fix them?

1. Move down to the first command and put the cursor on the back-tick `.
2. Use the `ci`` and write the correct command.
3. Repeat for all the commands.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

- `j` move left toward the *house*
- `h` move down (*jumping* off a ledge)
- `l` move up (*kicking* a soccer ball upward)
- `k` move right (*left*to right, like English)
- `A` let me *insert* text
- `i` let me *Append* text
- `x` let me *Initially* insert text
- `I` let me *ex-out* a character
- `w` let me *replace* a character
- `O` insert a line below the *original* line
- `o` insert a line *Over* the current line
- `r` move word by word
- `a` move *end* of word by end of word
- `d` move *backwards* word by word
- `e` let me insert text *after* the cursor
- `c` lets me *delete* text
- `d` lets me *change* text

Text for exercise ends -->

## Command Complete 🎉

Congrats! You did it ✅.

You have mastered the `c` command.

17/22 commands done.

### Reflecting

Reflecting on what you've learned so far, answer these questions out loud and pretend you're explaining them to someone who is new to Vim.

- What is the `c` command used for?
- In which mode do you use it?
- How is it different than the `d` command? How is it the same?