# Command - `v`

> Select text with `v`

The `v` command is similar to the `i` command in that you use it from the normal mode and it takes you to a new mode. In this case, `v` takes you into *visual* mode. This allows you to select text (also called "marking" text).

A good way to remember this is to think `v` for *visual*.

## Exercise 01  - Selecting Text

The goal of the first exercise is to practice using the `v` command.

We'll learn a few things here so hang on tight.

1. Move the cursor to the first line.
2. Hit `v`. Notice how you selected the character underneath the cursor. Hit `esc`.
3. Move the cursor to the line with the "word".
4. Hit `viw` (optional: hit `vw` and see why we don't want to use that). Hit `esc`.
5. Move down to the sentence and hit `vt.`. Hit `esc`.
6. Move down to the word "Two" and hit `Vj` (`V` selects the whole line, `j` jumps down).

<!-- Text for exercise starts

a

word

multiple words

An entire sentence.

Two sentences
broken over two lines.

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- The most common I use is the `V` to select the entire line.
- You can select a few words and use `y` to copy them.
- Look down at your fingers briefly to identify which finger you're using to hit the `v` key. For me, I use my left index finger.

## Exercise 02 - Practice Selecting Segments

The goal of the second exercise is to practice using the `v` and moving text around.

1. Start on the line with the comment.
2. Move down the words and stop at "c" in "comment".
3. Hit `vt.`.
4. Hit `y`.
5. Move the cursor to the second comment line (starting with "// And").
6. Move to the end of the sentence with `A` and hit `i` then add a space.
7. Hit `p`.
8. Follow a similar process to make the last line read `let y = 1;`.

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
// This is a comment.
let x = 1;

// And this is another
let y
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Although this feels a bit contrived, it's good practice.

## Exercise 03  - Practice Selecting Words

The goal of the third exercise is practicing selecting the words.

1. Go through the text and find all four names of the people mentioned.
2. When you land on their name, use `viw` to select it, `y` to yank and then `p` to paste it in the list.
3. Add all four names to the list.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

On Saturday, Alex met Jacey at the coffee shop. Their goal was to build the app in 4 hours. While they were there, a mutal friend showed up: Sahul. Sahul didn't join them, but stopped to say hi. He was there planning to meet a friend named April. They showed up shortly after and Sahul said goodbye.

People involved
---
1.
2.
3.
4.

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- The focus of this exercise is selecting the words with the `viw` command.

## Exercise 04 - Reverse the Lines

The goal of the fourth exercise is to reverse the lines using `V`.

Oh no! Someone how, these variable declarations have been reversed. Can you fix them?

1. Starting on the first line, hit `V` then `d`.
2. Move under the comment which says "Below here".
3. Hit `p`.
4. Repeat the same for the `b` and `a`.

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
const c = b + 1;

const b = a + 1;

const a = 1;

// Below here

```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Focus on moving lines quickly.

## Exercise 05 - Reviewing

The goal of the fifth exercise is to reflect on what you've learned so far.


1. Move to the first line.
2. Hit `V`.
3. Hit `j` and select all lines.
4. Hit `y` to copy.
5. Add a blank line.
6. Hit `p` and paste a copy below.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

- `h` move left toward the *house*
- `j` move down (*jumping* off a ledge)
- `k` move up (*kicking* a soccer ball upward)
- `l` move right (*left*to right, like English)
- `i` let me *insert* text
- `a` let me insert text *after* the cursor
- `I` let me *Initially* insert text
- `A` let me *Append* text
- `x` let me *ex-out* a character
- `r` let me *replace* a character
- `o` insert a line below the *original* line
- `O` insert a line *Over* the current line
- `w` move word by word
- `e` move *end* of word by end of word
- `b` move *backwards* word by word
- `d` lets me *delete* text
- `c` lets me *change* text
- `y` lets me *yank* text and `p` lets me *paste* text
- `v` lets you select text in *visual* mode

Text for exercise ends -->

## Command Complete 🎉

Congrats! You did it ✅.

You have mastered the `v` command.

19/22 commands done.

### Reflecting

Reflecting on what you've learned so far, answer these questions out loud and pretend you're explaining them to someone who is new to Vim.

- What is the `v` command used for?
- What mode does it put you in?
- When would you use it compared to normal mode or insert mode?