# Command - `f`

> Finding text with `f`

The `f` command is used to find text in a line. It is used while in normal mode.

A good way to remember it is to think `f` for find.

## Exercise 01  - Find the Money

The goal of the first exercise is to introduce you to the `f` command.

Find all the $ in the text.

1. Start at the beginning of the line.
2. Hit `fx` where `x` is replaced by the character you're looking for.
3. To go to the next one, repeat the same command.
4. Find all occurrences of "$".

<!-- Text for exercise starts

Within this sentence, there is $. Multiples bags of $. Can you find all of them? $

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Occasionally, this is more efficient than moving with `w` or `e` when looking for text.
- Look down at your fingers briefly to identify which finger you're using to hit the `f` key. For me, I use my left index finger.

## Exercise 02 - JavaScript Changes

The goal of the second exercise is to continue practicing the `f` command.

There are a few minor changes to be made in your JavaScript program. Can you help me?

1. Start on the first line.
2. Find the 1 and change that to be 5.
3. Find the 2 and change that to be 5.
4. Find the word "same" and change that to "equal".

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
const x = 1;

const y = 2;

const isEqual = x === y ? "They're same!" : "They're not equal!";
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Observe what happens when you try to use the `f` command on a line different than the one that contains what you're looking for.

## Exercise 03  - Moving Quickly

The goal of the third exercise is to practice the `f` command and move quickly.

We need to refactor this JavaScript code below. Follow the instructions and make use of the `f`. For fun, [time yourself](https://www.google.com/search?q=stopwatch) the first round. Then, go a second round and see if you can beat your original time.

1. Change "greeting" to "greetPerson".
2. Find the () and add the word "name" inside as a parameter.
3. Find the `}` inside the backticks and add an exclamation point after.
4. Add the missing ";" at the end of the return statement (after the last back-tick).

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
function greeting() {
    return `Hello there, ${name}`
}
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Don't worry if you feel slow now. You will increase your speed with practice.

## Exercise 04 - No Capitals

The goal of the exercise is to continue practicing the `f` command in a new scenario.

Oh no! This text is corrupt. There shouldn't be any capital letters. Can you fix it?

1. Use `fx` to move throughout the text.
2. Find all capital letters (e.g. "H", "R", etc).
3. Replace with lowercase or delete if they are extra.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

## Hello tHhere

WWelcome to the show! IIn thisS lesson, we're gGoing to cover the bAasics of JavaSScript.

We'lL learRn about vaAriableSs and FfuncTions.

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Remember, use `fx` where `x` can be anything (letters, capital letters, symbols, etc.)!

## Exercise 05 - Reviewing

The goal of the fifth exercise is to review everything you've learned so far.

The commands we had have been littered with $. Can you remove these?

1. Start from the top.
2. Use the `f$` to move throughout the text and remove them with `x`.
3. Find and remove them all.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

- `h` move left toward the *house*
- `j` move$ down (*jumping* off a ledge)
- `k` move up (*kicking* a $ soccer ball upward)
- `l` move right (*l$eft*to right, like English)
- `i` let me *insert* $text
- `a$` let me insert text *after* the cursor
- `I` let me *Initially* insert text
- `A` let me *Append* text
- `x` let me *ex-out* a character
- `r` let me *replace* a character
- `o` insert a line $below the *original* line
- `O` insert a line *Over* the current line
- `w` move word $by word
- `e` move *end* of word by end of word
- `b` move *backwards* word by word
- `d` lets me *delete* text
- `c` lets me *change* text
- `y` l$ets me *yank* text and `p` lets me *paste* text
- `v` lets you select text$ in *visual* mode
- `f` lets you *find* t$ext

Text for exercise ends -->

## Command Complete 🎉

Congrats! You did it ✅.

You have mastered the `f` command.

20/22 commands done.

### Reflecting

Reflecting on what you've learned so far, answer these questions out loud and pretend you're explaining them to someone who is new to Vim.

- What is the `f` command used for?
- In which mode do you use it?
- How would you use it to find an "@" symbol in a line?