# Command - `F`

> Finding text behind with `F`

The `F` command is the same as the `f` command, expect it looks in the opposite direction - backwards.

A good way to remember the `F` command is to think, "**F**! I am driving backwards on a one-way street!".

## Exercise 01  - Fixing Typos

The goal of the first exercise is to familiarize yourself with the `F` command.

Fix all the typos in the sentence.

1. Start at the end of the line.
2. Hit `Fx` to find backwards the first typo ("u" in "Vum").
3. Fix it.
4. Use the same command to continue working backwards until you've fixed all the typos.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

Yuo are so cclose to the end of the exercises?. Hoow arRe you feeliig about your Vum skillz?

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- It's easy to get `f` and `F` mixed up so remind yourself of the mnemonic for remembering `F`.
- Look down at your fingers briefly to identify which fingers you're using to hit the `F` key. For me, I use my left pinky finger to hit `shift` and my left index finger to hit `f` to make `F`.

## Exercise 02 - Minor Changes

The goal of the second exercise is to continue practicing the `F` command.

Someone changed your JavaScript program. Now, you need to make a few minor adjustments.

1. Start on the last line.
2. Find "${fromPlanet}" and add an ! to the end of.
3. Find "goodbyeEarth" and change to "goodbyePlanet".
4. Find "from" and change to "fromPlanet".
5. Find "hello" and change to "goodbye".

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
let goodbye = "hello";

let from = "Earth";

let goodbyeEarth = `${goodbye}, ${fromPlanet}`;
// Goodbye, Earth!
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Getting comfortable with the `F` will come over time as you use it more.

## Exercise 03  - Moving Quickly Backwards
The goal of the third exercise is to practice the `F` command and move quickly.

This is the same exercise from `f`. This time, we're starting from the bottom and moving upwards. [Time yourself](https://www.google.com/search?q=stopwatch) the first round. Then, go a second round and see if you can beat your original time. Compare your times to your times where you used `f`.

1. Start from the bottom (Line 74), with the cursor at the end of the line.
2. Add the missing ";" at the end of the return statement (after the last back-tick).
4. Find the `}` inside the backticks and add an exclamation point after.
5. Find the () and add the word "name" inside as a parameter.
6. Change "greeting" to "greetPerson".

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
function greeting() {
    return `Hello there, ${name}`
}
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Speed comes with time!

## Exercise 04 - No Lowercase

The goal of the fourth exercise is to continue practicing the `F` command in a new scenario.

The text is corrupt and we need you to come in and fix it. There shouldn't be any lowercase letters. Can you use your `F` magic and fix it?

1. Start from the last line, at the end of the line.
2. Use the `Fx` to move throughout the text.
3. Find all lowercase letters (e.g. "a", "i", etc).
4. Replace with capitals or delete if they are extra.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

IF YOU WAaNT TtO GeET YoOUR PpOINT ACROsS, SOMEtIMES YoU NEEeD TO SsHOUuT!

AS YOoU READ THIsS, CAN YOU HEAR HOow LOuUD Ii AM ThHANKS TO THE CAaPITALS?

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Remember, the `x` in `Fx` is the same as the `x` in `fx`. It can be any character you want.

## Exercise 05 - Reviewing

The goal of the fifth exercise is to review everything you've learned so far.

Someone has infiltrated our text and added a bunch of @ symbols. Can you fix this?

1. Start from the bottom, at the end of the line.
2. Use the `F@` to climb backwards through the text, removing the `@` with `x` as you go.
3. Find and remove them all.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

- `h` move left toward the *house*
- `j` move@ down (*jumping* off a ledge)
- `k` move up (*kicking* a @ soccer ball upward)
- `l` move right (*l@eft*to right, like English)
- `i` let me *insert* @text
- `a@` let me insert text *after* the cursor
- `I` let me *Initially* insert text
- `A` let me *Append* text
- `x` let me *ex-out* a character
- `r` let me *replace* a character
- `o` insert a line @below the *original* line
- `O` insert a line *Over* the current line
- `w` move word @by word
- `e` move *end* of word by end of word
- `b` move *backwards* word by word
- `d` lets me *delete* text
- `c` lets me *change* text
- `y` l@ets me *yank* text and `p` lets me *paste* text
- `v` lets you select text@ in *visual* mode
- `f` lets you *find* t@ext
- `F` lets you *Find* text backwards

Text for exercise ends -->

## Command Complete 🎉

Congrats! You did it ✅.

You have mastered the `F` command.

21/22 commands done.

### Reflecting

Reflecting on what you've learned so far, answer these questions out loud and pretend you're explaining them to someone who is new to Vim.

- What is the `F` command used for?
- In which mode do you use it?
- How does it differ from the `f` command?