# Command - `h`

> Navigating left with `h`

`h` is one of the fundamental commands in Vim. It is used for basic navigation while in normal mode. normal mode is where you spend most of your time. You execute commands for navigating, but as you'll see down the road, you can also modify text from normal mode. That's all you need to know for now.

`h` allows you to move left.

A good way to remember is to look at your finger. When you hit the `h` on the keyboard, your finger *moves left* from the `j` key to the `h`.

## Exercise 01  - Heading Home

The goal of the first exercise is to get our finger used to the `h` command.

1. Start with the cursor on top of the ⬅️.
2. Use the `h` command to move left.
3. Complete the exercise by stopping on the 🏠.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

🏠 Hi hello howdy! Welcome to the first exercise! ⬅️

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Try holding down the `h` command. Notice how fast you move!
  - If you don't move faster, you may want to revisit the setup in the [README.md](../README.md#prerequisites).
- If you find yourself forgetting which way `h` moves, try creating a mnemonic or something to help you remember.
  - Think of the 🏠 emoji. It looks like a home or a house, both of which start with the letter "h". Remember if you want to go *home*, you move left.
- Look down at your fingers briefly to identify which finger you're using to hit the `h` key. For me, I use my right index finger.

## Exercise 02 - Walking the Dog

For the second exercise, the goal is practice moving in small steps from A to B. We want to build up the muscle memory without losing accuracy.

In this scenario, we're teaching the dog 🐶 how to walk back to the house 🏠. When we start, we're only a few steps away from the house. But as we practice, the dog gets more comfortable walking and can move a greater distance.

1. Click on the dog 🐶 on bottom most line to put the cursor there.
2. Use the `h` command to move left.
3. Stop once you hit the house 🏠.
4. Follow Steps 1-3 for the remaining lines.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

🏠         🐶
  🏠       🐶
    🏠     🐶
      🏠   🐶
        🏠 🐶

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Try not to pass the house if you're moving too fast! You'll confuse the dog!
- If using the mouse to click on the next line feels cumbersome, that's okay! Once we learn the other commands to move down, up, right, we'll use the mouse less.

## Exercise 03  - Don't Lose the Race!

In this third exercise, the goal is to move quickly.

Pretend you're running a race. You want to cross the finish line before the others so you better run faster! You're running 5 races.

1. Starting with the first race, place your cursor on the far most right runner.
2. Hold down the `h` key and race to the finish line.
3. Repeat Steps 1-2 for all 5 races.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

 🏁                🏃🏾‍♀️                                    🏃🏿‍♀️
 🏁                🏃🏽‍♀️                            🏃🏿‍♂️
 🏁                🏃🏼‍♂️                                                         🏃🏾‍♂️
 🏁                🏃🏻‍♀ ️             🏃🏽‍♂️
 🏁                🏃🏽‍♂️                     🏃🏻‍♂️

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- I intentionally left one whitespace to the left of the finish line. See you if you can stop right on the flag without crossing over!

## Exercise 04 - Skating Home

For the fourth exercise, let's revisit moving in smaller increments.

On your skateboard ride home, you
- pick up apples from the grocery store
- pass by that beautiful mountain with snow
- see a rabbit run across the street
- pass by your friend's house with the lovely garden

1. Starting from the skateboard, make your way home.
2. Make stops at the apple, mountains, rabbit, and garden home.
3. Stop when you hit the home.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

🏠 🏡 🐇  🏔️ 🍎  🛹

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- You'll notice some emojis like the mountain are actually made up two characters so you'll have to skate an extra push to get past them.

## Exercise 05 - Feed Truffles

The last and final exercise for the `h` command is a combination of moving slow with accuracy and moving quickly. How does that work? Well, move quickly unless you need to stop!

You're riding your bike home from school/work. You need to get home to feed your 🐈.
You take the shortest route you know, but it has two stop signs and two traffic lights.
Make sure you stop at all of them.

1. Get home to feed your cat, Truffles!

<!-- Text for exercise starts

🐈 🏠 🛑     🚦         🚦        🛑                             🚲

Text for exercise ends -->

## Command Complete 🎉

Congrats! You did it ✅.

You have mastered the `h` command.

1/22 commands done.

### Reflecting

Reflecting on what you've learned so far, think about these questions and pretend you're explaining them to someone who is new to Vim.

If you're able to, do it out loud. It shouldn't take more than 1-2 mins.

- What is the `h` command used for?
- How are you going to remember it?
- In which mode do you use it?