# Command - `k`

> Navigating up with `k`

`k` is the third command in our set of fundamentals we're covering here in the beginning. You use it for basic navigation while in normal mode.
It allows you to move up, hence the opposite of `j`.

To remember this one, think of a soccer ball. When you kick the ball, it moves up into the air. With Vim, the `k` can help us *kick* the editor up towards the top.

## Exercise 01  - Learning to Score

For the first exercise, the goal is to learn how to use the `k` command.

You want to score a goal by *kicking* the soccer ball into the net.

1. Start with the cursor on top of the soccer ball ⚽.
2. Use the `k` command to move up.
3. Complete the exercise by stopping on the 🥅.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

🥅




⚽

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- If you're not a fan of soccer, or you're offended I'm not calling it football, think of your own mnemonic.
  - The more it ties back to you and your interests, the better!
- Look down at your fingers briefly to identify which finger you're using to hit the `k` key. For me, I use my left index finger.

## Exercise 02 - Score all the Goals

The goal for this next exercise is to practice using the `k` key with various distances.

Your job is to score all the goals in all the nets.

1. Start at the bottom most soccer ball ⚽.
2. Kick the ball up using the `k` towards the 🥅.
3. After you score, move up to the next soccer ball ⚽ and repeat Steps 1-2.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

🥅

⚽

🥅




⚽


🥅

⚽

🥅








⚽

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- The focus is on the varying distances. Over time as you hit the `k` more, your fingers will naturally remember what direction it moves you.

## Exercise 03 - Dribble through the Trees

Now that your fingers are feeling warm, lets use this exercise to combine what we learned with `h` (remember, using it to *move left* to the **house**) with what we're learning now with `k`.

Dribble through the trees! Don't hit one though.

1.  Start on the bottom most soccer ball ⚽.
2.  Use the `k` and `h` commands to move.
3.  Shoot the ball into the net 🥅.
4.  Repeat Steps 1-3 for the other two balls.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

  🥅
🌳   ⚽
         🥅

       🌳  
        🌳   ⚽

    🥅
  🌳  
   🌳    ⚽

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Remind yourself which key moves which direction. It's easy to do these exercises by blindly hitting the keys.

## Exercise 04  - Shooting Practice

Hopefully you're feeling good now. Lets use this exercise to combine what we learned with `j` (remember, using it to *jump down*) with what we're learning now with `k`.

Shooting practice means scoring every soccer ball into the net.

1. Start at the bottom most soccer ball ⚽.
2. Use the `k` command to kick it into the net.
3. After you score, move back down with `j` to the next ball ⚽.
4. Repeat Steps 1-3 until you've scored all 5 balls.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

🥅

⚽
⚽
⚽
⚽
⚽

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Think of this exercise like what you might practice in real life with soccer. It's repetitive, but it allows you to focus on one skill set at a time. In our case, that's moving up and down with `k` and `j`.

## Exercise 05 - Weaving to the Net

The goal of the final exercise for `k` is to combine it with `h` and `j`.
combine this with the `h` and `j`.

The coach lined up these make-shift cones for you to go through. Don't hit any or you have to start over! Focus on accuracy first, then speed.

1. Start at the soccer ball ⚽.
2. Navigate through the cones xx.
3. Shoot the ball into the net 🥅.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

🥅 xxxxxx      x    x     xx   xx    xx ⚽
          xx     x    xxx    x    xx      xx
Text for exercise ends -->

## Command Complete 🎉

Congrats! You did it ✅.

You have mastered the `k` command.

3/22 commands done.

### Reflecting

Reflecting on what you've learned so far, think about these questions and pretend you're explaining them to someone who is new to Vim.

If you're able to, do it out loud. It shouldn't take more than 1-2 mins.

- What is the `k` command used for?
- How are you going to remember it?
- In which mode do you use it?
- How does the `k` command differ from the `j` and `h` commands?