# Command - `i`

> Inserting text with `i` - insert mode

Time for the fun to begin! With the `i` command, you enter what's known as "insert mode." This is where you are able to actually type words and make changes.

To remember this, think `i`, short for *insert* mode.

You can enter insert mode with `i` and exit by hitting `esc`. Try it now.

## Exercise 01  - Your First Words

The goal of the first exercise is to write your first word with the `i` command.

1. Using the commands you learned earlier, move to the ":" on Line 24.
2. Use the `i` command and add your name.
3. When you're done, hit `esc` to return to normal mode.
4. Repeat Steps 1-3 an complete the rest of the profile.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

My Profile

Name:
Favorite food:
Favorite color:

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- You should start feeling comfortable with the navigation commands (`h`, `j`, `k`, `l`) and soon, the insert command.
- You may want to remap the `caps lock` key to `esc`. It makes it a lot easier to switch between command and insert mode. Look at the `README` for instructions.
- Look down at your fingers briefly to identify which finger you're using to hit the `i` key. For me, I use my right middle finger.

## Exercise 02 - JavaScript Game Show

The goal of the second exercise is to practice moving between insert mode and normal mode.

Oh no! The programmer who was supposed to write these functions called in sick. Can you fix them? There are three places you need to insert some text. The first function is missing a name. The second function is missing a semicolon at the end of Line 51. The third function is missing the keyword `function`.

1. Using the `i` command, fix these functions.

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
function () {
    return "Sorry, you didn't win this time. Better luck next time!";
}

function congratsNewCar () {
    return "Congrats! You won a brand new car!"
}

 welcomeToTheShow() {
     return "Hello and welcome to the JavaScript Game Show!";
 }
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- No worries if you don't normally write JavaScript! You should be able to make these changes following the instructions, but also following the patterns of the three functions.
- For the second function, it may seem cumbersome to hit `l` to move all the way to the end of the line. Isn't there a faster way? Keep that in mind!

## Exercise 03  - Factorial

The goal of this exercise is to practice moving between the two modes faster than the last mode.

Your math professor was writing out nine factorial when their keyboard broke. They asked you to help you.

1. Following the pattern, insert an "x" between the remaining numbers to signify multiplication.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

1 x 2 x 3 4 5 6 8 9 = 9!

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- If you want the extra challenge, time yourself! How fast can you complete this?

## Exercise 04 - Markdown Gone Wrong

The goal of this fourth exercise is to continue practicing insert mode.

It seems like the markdown you pasted from a GitHub gist formatted incorrectly. Can you fix it?

1. Turn "Your Pets" into an H2.
2. Make the three pets into an unordered list.
3. Change the sentence at the bottom into a markdown quote.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

Your Pets

fish
dog
cat

I love taking them all for a walk at the same time.

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- It should start to feel natural switching between normal mode and insert mode.

## Exercise 05 - Command Notes

The final exercise brings together what we've learned so far while practicing the `i` command.

Your notes on the commands we've learn so far are now corrupt! Can you fill in the `` with the correct commands?

1. For the lines below, add the correct command inside the ``.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

- the `` command moves left toward the *house*
- the `` command moves down (*jumping* off a ledge)
- the `` command moves up (*kicking* a soccer ball upward)
- the `` command moves right (*left*to right, like English)

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips
- If you struggled to remember the commands and had to look them up, I suggest revisiting your mnemonics. Ideally, you should be able to recall them from memory after 5 exercises.
- Try going backwards, starting from the bottom (most recently learned) to the top!

## Command Complete 🎉

Congrats! You did it ✅.

You have mastered the `i` command.

5/22 commands done.

### Reflecting

Reflecting on what you've learned so far, think about these questions and pretend you're explaining them to someone who is new to Vim.

- What is the `i` command used for?
- What's the difference between normal mode and insert mode?
- How are your feeling so far?