# Command - `I`

> Insert at the beginning with `I`

The `I` command is another command for making changes.
It places your cursor at the beginning of the line in insert mode. It's the combination of hitting `h` until you're at the start of the line + pressing `i` to go into insert mode.

A good way to remember this is thinking `I` for _Initially_ as in, "Initially, I wanted to start from the very beginning the line."

## Exercise 01 - Missing Capitals

The goal of the first exercise is to get you familiar with the `I` command.

1. Start on the first line near the end.
2. Use the command `I`.
3. Add quotes " followed by the missing capital letter.
4. Repeat for the remaining lines.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

ello, world!"

oodbye, world!"

ood morning, friends!"

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

   - You'll start to notice yourself feel comfortable moving to the start of line with `I`.
- Look down at your fingers briefly to identify which fingers you're using to hit the `I` key. For me, my left pinky hits `shift` while my right middle finger hits `i` to make `I`.

## Exercise 02 - Exploring with S's

The goal of the second exercise is to understand how position affects (or doesn't) the command `I`.

1. Move the cursor to the start of the last "here" in the sentence below.
2. Use the `I` command.
3. Add a capital S at the beginning.
4. Repeat steps 1-3 for the other two "here"s.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

See where you land, by starting here, here or here.

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Yes, 4 S's at the beginning of a word is not realistic, but bare with me! Focus more on the relationship between cursor position in a line and where you land with `I`. You should notice a similarity between it and `i`.

## Exercise 03 - More Exclamations

1. Start at the end of Line 61.
2. Use the `I` command.
3. Add three exclamation points !!!.
4. Repeat Steps 1-3 for Line 63 and Line 65.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

Hello, are you there???

I need your help learning Vim.

Can you please respond? I need to practice for this upcoming interview because they said they're going to test me on Vim but I don't know where to start. Please help friend.

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Focus on the command and how you switch between `I` and `esc` when you need to insert vs. move around.

## Exercise 04 - Missing a Letter

The goal of the fourth exercise is to practice fixing typos made in a few lines of JavaScript.

It's the same coworker. They accidentally deleted the first letter for this section of your JavaScript program. Can you fix it?

1. Start on Line 88 at the end.
2. Use the `I` command.
3. Add the correct letter based on what the full keyword is (`let`, `const`, `function`).
4. Repeat Steps 1-3 for Lines 90, 92, and 94.

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript

et color = "Red";

onst fruit = "apple";

et month = "January";

unction youDidIt() {
    return "Great job!"
}

```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Think about how you might use the `I` command in your everyday work.

## Exercise 05 - Reviewing Commands

The goal of this exercise is to both reflect on what you've learned and practice a bit more finger movement between `I`, `esc` and `i`.

1. Start near the middle or the end of the first line.
2. Use the `I` command.
3. Hit `esc`.
4. Use the `l` then the `i` command.
5. Type in the command that matches the description to the right of the ``.
6. Repeat for Lines 121-126.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

Commands I know so far:
`` moves left toward the *house*
`` moves down (*jumping* off a ledge)
`` moves up (*kicking* a soccer ball upward)
`` moves right (*left*to right, like English)
`` lets me *insert* text
`` lets me insert text *after* the cursor
`` lets me *Initially* insert text

Text for exercise ends -->

## Command Complete 🎉

Congrats! You did it ✅.

You have mastered the `I` command.

7/22 commands done.

### Reflecting

Reflecting on what you've learned so far, think about these questions and pretend you're explaining them to someone who is new to Vim.

- What is the `I` command used for?
- What mode does it place you in?
- How is it different from `i`?