# Command - `A`

> Append to the end of a line with `A`

The `A` command is another command for making changes.
It places your cursor at the end of the line in insert mode. It's the combination of hitting `l` until you're at the end of the line + pressing `i` to go into insert mode.

A good way to remember this is thinking `A` for *Append*.

*Note: keep in mind this is a capital "a" -> `A`. It is different from the previously covered lowercase `a`.*

## Exercise 01  - Fix the Quotes

The goal of the first exercise is to familiarize yourself with the command `A`.

You noticed a few typos in the code your friend wrote. Can you fix it?

1. Using the commands you know, navigate to the start of the JavaScript snippet.
2. Use the command `A` to enter insert mode at the end of the sentence.
3. Add the missing double-quotes " and the semicolon ;
4. Repeat Steps 1-3 for the remaining lines.

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
let day = "Wednesday

let phrase = "Happy

let otherPhrase = "Sad
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- If the `A` for *Append* mnemonic doesn't stick, try thinking of your own!
- Look down at your fingers briefly to identify which fingers you're using to hit the `A` key. For me, my right pinky hits the `shift` while my left pinky hits `a` to make `A`.

## Exercise 02 - Exploring with Exclamations

The goal of the second exercise is to understand how position affects (or doesn't) the command `A`.

1. Move the cursor to the start of the first "here" in the sentence below.
2. Use the `A` command.
3. Add an exclamation point ! at the end of "here".
4. Repeat steps 1-3 for the other two "here"s.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

Start here or here or here, and see where it takes you!

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Be aware of any differences you notice while using the `A` command depending on the position of the cursor in the line.

## Exercise 03  - Are these Questions?

The goal of this exercise is to continue practicing the `A` command.

1. Start at the beginning of the first line in the exercise.
2. Use the command `A`.
3. Add the missing question mark ? to the end.
4. Repeat Steps 1-3 for the remaining lines.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

I forgot to add punctuation to the end of this sentence. Or did I

Is this a question

This sentence is super long. Depending on how your editor is set up it may wrap around until it appears as though it's on two lines. But if you look at the actual line numbers, it will only show one line. Pretty cool, huh

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- This command comes in handy oftentimes when you forgot a punctuation mark, a quote, a comma, a semicolon, etc.


## Exercise 04  - Codeword: Bubblegum

The goal of the third exercise is to practice using `i`, `a`, `I` and `A` in the same context so that you know when to use each.

1. Add the missing semicolon to end of the JavaScript snippet using `A`.
2. Add the word `let` to the beginning using `I`.
3. Add the missing "d" using `a` so that it reads "codeword".
4. Add the missing " in front of "bubblegum" using the `i` command.

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
codewor = bubblegum"
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- As you can see, you'll want to get comfortable with all four commands because you'll run into scenarios where you need to switch between them within the same line.



## Exercise 05 - Reviewing Commands

The goal of this exercise is to both reflect on what you've learned and practice a bit more finger movement between `A`, `esc` and `i`.

1. Start at the first line of the exercise.
2. Use the `A` command.
3. Hit `esc`.
4. Use the `i` command.
5. Type in the command that matches the description to the left of the `=`.
6. Repeat for the remaining lines.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

Commands I know so far:
- moves left toward the *house* = `h`
- moves down (*jumping* off a ledge) = ``
- moves up (*kicking* a soccer ball upward) = ``
- moves right (*left*to right, like English) = ``
- lets me *insert* text = ``
- lets me insert text *after* the cursor = ``
- lets me *Initially* insert text = ``
- lets me *Append* text = ``

Text for exercise ends -->

## Command Complete 🎉

Congrats! You did it ✅.

You have mastered the `A` command.

8/22 commands done.

### Reflecting

Reflecting on what you've learned so far, think about these questions and pretend you're explaining them to someone who is new to Vim.

- What is the `A` command used for?
- What mode does it place you in?
- How is it different from `I`?