# Command - `x`

> Deleting a character with `x`

The `x` command allows you to delete a character while in normal mode. The best part about this command is that you can make changes without switching between modes!

A good way to remember this is thinking `x` for "ex out" or remove it. Similar to how we say "cross out" in English.

## Exercise 01 - Too Many C's

The goal of the first exercise is to get you familiar with the `x` command.

Your cat stepped on the keyboard when you were writing your JavaScript program. Now, the keyword `function` has way too many "c"s. Can you fix it?

1. Start on the first of the JavaScript snippet.
2. Navigate to the word `function`.
3. Place the cursor on the left-most "c".
4. Use the `x` command until you're left with only one "c".

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
funcccction winning() {
    return "You win!"
}
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Keep an eye on which character is deleted when you hit the `x` command.
- - Look down at your fingers briefly to identify which finger you're using to hit the `x` key. For me, I hit it with my left middle finger.

## Exercise 02 - Typos in the Recruiter Email

The goal of the second exercise is to get comfortable moving around and using the `x` command.

1. Start on "Dear recruiter" line.
2. Navigate to the first typo (extra ",").
3. Use the `x` command to delete it.
4. Fix the remaining 3 typos in the email.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

Dear recruiter,,

TThanks so much for contacting me abouut the role! I am not looking, but I would be happy to connect you with my best friend's boyfriend's step-sister who is on the market for a new gigg.

I'll pass your contact info to them.

Best,

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Do you see opportunities to use previously learned commands to help with this exercise? I see 3! See if you can find and use them.

## Exercise 03 - JavaScript Issues

The goal of the third exercise is to continue practicing the `x` command.

You have some JavaScript code which has a lot of extra characters. Can you remove them?

1. Start on the first line of the JavaScript snippet.
2. Fix the typos:
   1. extra `/` in the first code comment.
   2. the word `const`.
   3. the extra quote.

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
/// This code is great.
constt vimLife = "Vim is life."

// Hmm...I don't know about this.
cconst questionable = "Is it though?""
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Keep up the good work!

## Exercise 04 - JavaScript Oops

The goal of the fourth exercise is to intentionally practice using the `x` command with the `A` and `I` commands.

1. Start at the end of the first line.
2. Use the `x` command to remove the extra character.
3. Use the `I` then `esc` to get to the front of the line and then repeat Step 2.
4. Do the same for the other typos, utilizing both `A` and `I` where it makes sense.

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
ffunction pickColor(color) {{
   reeturn `Your favorite color is: ${color}}`
}
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- With more practice, you'll build memory muscle to cycle between `A`, `I`, and `x` to make changes more quickly.

## Exercise 05 - Reviewing Commands

The goal of this exercise is to reflect on what we've learned up until this point while practicing the `x` command.

1. Start near the middle or end of the first line.
2. Use the `I` command.
3. Hit `esc`.
4. use the `x` command to delete the extra dash "-".
5. Move right till the cursor is inside the ``.
6. Hit `i`.
7. Type in the command that matches the definition.
8. Repeat for all the commands.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

-- `` moves left toward the *house*
-- `` moves down (*jumping* off a ledge)
-- `` moves up (*kicking* a soccer ball upward)
-- `` moves right (*left*to right, like English)
-- `` lets me *insert* text
-- `` lets me insert text *after* the cursor
-- `` lets me *Initially* insert text
-- `` lets me *Append* text
-- `` lets me *ex-out* a character

Text for exercise ends -->

## Command Complete 🎉

Congrats! You did it ✅.

You have mastered the `x` command.

9/22 commands done.

### Reflecting

Reflecting on what you've learned so far, think about these questions and pretend you're explaining them to someone who is new to Vim.

- What is the `x` command used for?
- In which mode do you use it?
- When would you use this instead of `i`, `a`, `I` or `A`?