# Command - `r`

> Replacing a character with `r`

The `r` command allows you to replace a character while in normal mode. This is like a combination of `x` and `i` in one motion.

A good way to remember this is associating `r` with "replace".

## Exercise 01  - Heard Ya Wrong

The goal of the first exercise is to get your fingers used to the `r` command.

You wrote down the names of the people in your learning cohort. Turns out you heard them all wrong. It's supposed to be Mally, Kathy (with a "K"), Ron, and Tom.

1. Put your cursor on the "o" in Molly.
2. Hit the `r` command.
3. Type "a".
4. Repeat Steps 1-3 for the other three names.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

Molly, Cathy, Don, Mom.

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- As you're learning the `r` command, keep in mind the difference between it and the `x` command.
- Look down at your fingers briefly to identify which finger you're using to hit the `r` key. For me, I use my left index finger.

## Exercise 02 - Typo.js

The goal of the second exercise is to continue practicing the `r` command, but on multiple lines.

1. Fix the `let` keyword.
2. Fix the second variable to be `y` not `x`.
3. Fix the variable name to be `z` not `2`.

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript

lrt x = 5;

let x = 2;

let 2 = x + y;
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Remind yourself the mnemonic for `r`! Get that to stick in your brain.

## Exercise 03  - Comment Gone Wrong

In this exercise, the goal is to use `r` to fix a few comments in this JavaScript code comment.

1. Find the typo in Line 66.
2. Fix them using the `r` command.
3. Repeat until you've fixed all 8 typos.

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
// This is a long cooment.
// It explaiis why I wrrte the function to
// do this realyy complicattd thing.
// Hopefulyy it doesn't become leggcy cpde.
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- `r` excels when you need to replace one single character. Anymore and sometimes it makes sense to rewrite the whole word.

## Exercise 04 - Z has to Go

The purpose of the fourth exercise is to practice the `r` command but to also spark curiosity. Think, could there be a better way to do this? We'll find out down the road!

Your manager saw your code. They said you can't use "z" for your variable name because it looks too much like an "s". Instead, they want you to rename it to a "k".

1. Using the `r` command, rename all instances of "z" to "k".

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
let z = 6;

let total = 5 + z;

let otherTotal = 2 + z;

let yetAnotherTotal = 9 + z;
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Wouldn't it be great if we could jump to a letter using some sort of find command? Keep that in mind!

## Exercise 05 - Reviewing Commands

The goal of the fifth exercise is to reflect on what commands you know so far.

Oh no! Someone has mixed up the commands. Can you fix them?

1. Go through each command.
2. Replace the command inside the `` with the correct command.

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

- `l` moves left toward the *house*
- `k` moves down (*jumping* off a ledge)
- `j` moves up (*kicking* a soccer ball upward)
- `h` moves right (*left*to right, like English)
- `z` lets me *insert* text
- `v` lets me insert text *after* the cursor
- `I` lets me *Append* text
- `A` lets me *Initially* insert text
- `r` lets me *ex-out* a character
- `x` lets me *replace* a character

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

## Command Complete 🎉

Congrats! You did it ✅.

You have mastered the `r` command.

10/22 commands done.

### Reflecting

Reflecting on what you've learned so far, think about these questions and pretend you're explaining them to someone who is new to Vim.

- What is the `r` command used for?
- In which mode do you use it?
- When should you use the `x` command vs. the `r` command?