# Command - `o`

> Inserting a line below with `o`

The `o` command allows you to insert a line below from normal mode and switch into insert mode.

A good way to remember this is to think `o` inserts a line below the *original* line. Or, like when you see someone in real life and they're shorter than you expected and you go, "Oh. You're shorter than I expected." That person's hight is *below* what you expected.

## Exercise 01  - Missing Spaces

The goal of the first exercise is to learn the `o` command.

It looks like the person who wrote these questions forgot to add a line break between the questions (Q) and the answers (A). Can you fix that?

1. Place the cursor on the same line as the first question.
2. Use the command `o`.
3. Hit `esc`.
4. Repeat Steps 1-3 for the remaining two questions.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

Q: What day is today?

A: Thursday.

Q: What color is the sky?
A: Blue.

Q: What is the name of our planet?
A: Earth.

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- You'll find yourself using this when you need to add line breaks.
- Look down at your fingers briefly to identify which finger you're using to hit the `o` key. For me, I use my right ring finger.

## Exercise 02 - The Linter Broke

The goal of the second exercise is to continue practicing the `o` command.

Oh no! The linter broke. Those lines are too close together. Can you fix it?

1. Put the cursor on the first line in the JavaScript code.
2. Use the `o` command.
3. Hit `esc`.
4. Repeat Steps 1-3 so that there is a line break underneath all the `let` statements.

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
let woah = "woah";
let tooClose = "I'm too close";
let same = "same";
let spacePlease = "Add some space below";
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Remind yourself of the mnemonic (either the one provided or your own). You want it to sink in.

## Exercise 03  - Markdown Quickly

The goal of the third exercise is to practice using the `o` command quickly.

The person editing this markdown code block forgot to add line breaks between the headings, paragraphs and divider. Can you fix them?

1. Start on the first line of the markdown snippet.
2. Use the command `o` and add some text.
3. Hit `esc` and move to the next line.
4. Repeat for the other lines.

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```markdown
## Docs
These are the docs.
---
## Another Section
More important information for the docs.
```
<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- See how fast you can move!

## Exercise 04 - Multiple Lines and Cursors

The goal of this exercise is to teach you how to use the `o` command to insert multiple lines.

1. Start with the cursor on the line "This is fun."
2. Hit `5o` (note: that's "5" followed by the command `o`).
3. Write the sentence "This is fun".

<!-- Text for exercise starts

This is fun.

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Try using a different number instead of 5. Notice what happens. Play around until you're satisfied.

## Exercise 05 - Reviewing Commands

The goal of the fifth exercise is to reflect on what commands you know so far.

We need some space below each command. They're too close together. Can you fix them?

1. Go through each command.
2. Use the `o` command to add a line break below.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

- `h` moves left toward the *house*
- `j` moves down (*jumping* off a ledge)
- `k` moves up (*kicking* a soccer ball upward)
- `l` moves right (*left*to right, like English)
- `i` lets me *insert* text
- `a` lets me insert text *after* the cursor
- `I` lets me *Initially* insert text
- `A` lets me *Append* text
- `x` lets me *ex-out* a character
- `r` lets me *replace* a character
- `o` inserts a line below the *original* line

Text for exercise ends -->

## Command Complete 🎉

Congrats! You did it ✅.

You have mastered the `o` command.

11/22 commands done.

### Reflecting

Reflecting on what you've learned so far, think about these questions and pretend you're explaining them to someone who is new to Vim.

- What is the `o` command used for?
- In which mode does it put you?
- Does the `o` command insert a line above or below the cursor?