# Command - `O`

> Inserting a line above below with `O`

The `O` command allows you to insert a line above from normal mode and switch into insert mode.

A good way to remember this is to think capital "O" from *Overwatch*, or "O" like "*Over* the Rainbow."

## Exercise 01  - Answer Above

1. Put your cursor on the first line.
2. Use the command `O`.
3. Add your name.
4. Repeat Steps 1-3 for favorite food and technology.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

^Name

^Favorite Food

^Favorite Technology

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- This will come in handy so learn it well!
- Look down at your fingers briefly to identify which fingers you're using to hit the `O` key. For me, my right pinky hits shift while my left ring finger hits `o` to make `O`.

## Exercise 02 - Linter Broke Again

The goal of the second exercise is to continue practicing the `O` command.

Oh no! The linter broke again. Looks like you're going to have to manually add line breaks between these `let` statements.

1. Put the cursor on the first line in the JavaScript code.
2. Use the `O` command.
3. Hit `esc`.
4. Repeat Steps 1-3 so that there is a line break between all the `let` statements.

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
let help = "help me";
let needMoreRoom = "I need more room";
let same = "same";
let meAsWell = "me as well";
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Focus on where the line break is added! It's easy to get this command mixed up with `o` since they're so similar. Don't let it happen to you!

## Exercise 03  - More Markdown Quickly

The goal of the third exercise is to practice using the `O` command quickly.

The person editing this markdown code block forgot to add line breaks between the headings, paragraphs and divider. Can you fix them?

1. Start on the first line of the markdown snippet.
2. Use the command `O`.
3. Hit `esc` and move to the next line.
4. Repeat for the remaining lines so that there is al break between each line.

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```markdown
## Docs
These are the docs.
---
## Another Section
More important information for the docs.
```
<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Practice moving quickly!

## Exercise 04 - Multiple Lines

The goal of this exercise is to teach you how to use the `O` command to insert multiple lines.

1. Start with the cursor on Line 92.
2. Hit `3O` (note: that's "3" followed by the command `O`, not a zero).
3. Write the sentence "I will master Vim".

<!-- Text for exercise starts

I will master Vim.

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Try using a different number instead of 3. Notice what happens. Play around until you're satisfied.

## Exercise 05 - Reviewing Commands

The goal of the fifth exercise is to reflect on what commands you know so far.

We need some space above each command. They're too close together. Can you fix them?

1. Go through each command.
2. Use the `O` command to add a line break above.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

- `h` moves left toward the *house*
- `j` moves down (*jumping* off a ledge)
- `k` moves up (*kicking* a soccer ball upward)
- `l` moves right (*left*to right, like English)
- `i` lets me *insert* text
- `a` lets me insert text *after* the cursor
- `I` lets me *Initially* insert text
- `A` lets me *Append* text
- `x` lets me *ex-out* a character
- `r` lets me *replace* a character
- `o` inserts a line below the *original* line
- `O` inserts a line *Over* the current line

Text for exercise ends -->

## Command Complete 🎉

Congrats! You did it ✅.

You have mastered the `O` command.

12/22 commands done.

### Reflecting

Reflecting on what you've learned so far, think about these questions and pretend you're explaining them to someone who is new to Vim.

- What is the `O` command used for?
- What mode does it place you in?
- How will you remember the difference between `O` and `o`?