# Command - `w`

> Moving by word with `w`

The `w` command allows you to move word by word in normal mode.

You can remember it by thinking `w` for *word*.

## Exercise 01  - Intro to Words

The goal of the first exercise is to teach you the `w` command.

1. Start with the cursor on the first line.
2. Use the `w` command to move word by word until you hit the end of the sentence.
3. Repeat for the second line.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

Keep an eye on the cursor as you move down the sentence.

Notice. What happens with punctuation? Is it, what, you expected?

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- The idea of what constitutes a "word" might be different than what you expect. Keep that in mind as you're practicing.
- Look down at your fingers briefly to identify which finger you're using to hit the `w` key. For me, I use my left ring finger.

## Exercise 02 - How Many Words?

In the second exercise, the goal is to learn how you can combine the `w` command with a number and see what counts as a "word."

1. Look at the line with the punctuation and words. Guess how my times you will hit `w` to move from the "." to the "A".
2. Write down your guess after "Guess:".
3. Move the cursor to the line, use the `w` command and count the result.
4. Add the result on to "Result:".
5. After, Repeat Steps 3, but prefix the `w` command with the result (e.g. `1w`).

<!-- Text for exercise starts

Guess:

. ? & * hello #$% ^& A

Result:

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- See how you can use `nw` where `n` is the number of times you want to hit the `w` command? Similar to the multiple line insert with `o` and `O`! Pretty cool, huh?

## Exercise 03  - Letter to Manager

The goal of this third exercise is to start to incorporate the `w` command with how you might combine it with `n`, as in a number, along with the other commands we've learned so far.

You wrote a draft to your manager about these exercises, but you left a few typos. Can you fix them before you send them this message?

1. Start with the cursor on Line 67.
2. Hit `2w` then `x` to delete the extra comma.
4. Hit `o` to insert a new line below.
5. Hit `esc`.
6. Use the rest of your skills to fix the remaining typos and missing line breaks.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

Dear Manager,,

Thank you for buying mee these Vim exercises to improve my skills. You have no idea how fast I am learning. My ability to move through text files is lightning fast now.

Can't wait to show you in our next 1:1.
- Your Faavorite EEmployee

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- By now, you should feel comfortable switching between normal mode and insert mode with `esc`. If you haven't remapped caps lock to `esc`, let this be another reminder!

## Exercise 04 - Fix the Function

The goal of the fourth exercise is to see how the `w` command might be used when writing JavaScript.

Your function has a few typos in it. Can you fix them?

1. Start with the cursor on Line 90.
2. Use the `w` command to move through the function.
3. Fix the three typos (extra letters).

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
function buildPerson(name) {
    return {
        nname,
        type: "hhuman",
        favColor: "rred",
    }
}
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Get comfortable using the `w`, `I` and the `A` commands to get the cursor where you need to be the fastest. Over time, it will become second nature for your fingers.

## Exercise 05 - Reviewing

The goal of the fifth exercise is to reflect on what commands you know so far.

Oh no! A virus affected our text file by adding random "~"s mixed throughout it. Can you remove them?

1. Start with the cursor on the first line.
2. Use the `w` command to move to the "~".
3. Ex-out the "~" with the `x` command.
4. Repeat until you remove all "~".

<!-- Text for exercise starts

- `h` moves left toward ~the *house*
- `j` ~moves down (*jumping* off a ledge)
- `k` moves up (*kicking* a soccer ball upward)
- `l` moves ~right (*left*to right, like English)
- `i` lets me *insert* text
- `a` ~lets me insert text *after* the cursor
- `I` lets me *Initially* insert text
- `A` lets ~me *Append* text
- `x` lets me ~*ex-out* a character
- `r` lets me ~*replace* a character
- `o` ~inserts a line below the *original* line
- `O` inserts ~a line *Over* the current line
- `w` moves ~word by word

Text for exercise ends -->

## Command Complete 🎉

Congrats! You did it ✅.

You have mastered the `w` command.

13/22 commands done.

### Reflecting

Reflecting on what you've learned so far, think about these questions and pretend you're explaining them to someone who is new to Vim.

- What is the `w` command used for?
- In which mode do you use it?
- How is punctuation treated? The same or different as a typical word?