# Command - `e`

> Moving by end of word with `e`

The `e` command allows you to move end of word by end of word in normal mode.

You can remember it by associating the `e` with *end* of word.

## Exercise 01  - Intro to Ends

The goal of the first exercise is to teach you the `e` command.

1. Start with the cursor on the first line
2. Use the `e` command to move end of word by end of word until the end of the line.
3. Repeat for the second line.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

Keep an eye on the cursor. See how it skips spaces?

See how it moves with punctuation, like, commas and!? Other stuff??

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- As you become familiar with both `w` and `e`, you'll learn when to use one vs. the other.
- Look down at your fingers briefly to identify which finger you're using to hit the `e` key. For me, I use my left middle finger.

## Exercise 02 - How Many Words?

1. Look at the line with the symbols and guess how my times you will hit `e` to move from the "." to the "@".
2. Write down your guess.
3. Move the cursor to 41, use the `e` command and count the result.
4. Write down the result.
5. After, Repeat Steps 3, but prefix the `e` command with the result (e.g. `1e`).

<!-- Text for exercise starts

Guess:

. ! & ? js # *$% ^ & @

Result:

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Are you noticing a pattern? With certain commands, like `e` and `w`, you can prefix with `n` where `n` is a number. Keep that in mind!

## Exercise 03  - Fix the PR

The goal of the third exercise is to continue practicing the `e` command.

You're about to submit a PR for that feature you just built. But you realize, it has some typos. Can you find and fix them?

1. Use the `e` command to navigate through the markdown and fix the typos.

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```markdown
# Summaryy

This PR addss the feature thatt makes thee app mobile----friendly and fixess thatt weirdd IE11 bugg.

- [ ] tested locallyy
- [ ] updated docss

Fixes #1582
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- `e` shines when you need fix typos/characters at the end of words.

## Exercise 04 - Bad JS

The goal of the fourth exercise is to practice using the `e` command in the context of code.

Not again! More typos in your coworker's JavaScript? If only there were a tool to fix these. For now, can you use your Vim skills to fix them?

1. Fix the typos in the JavaScript code block below using the `e` command to move around.

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
const personnn = {
    name: "",,
    type: "humann",
    favColor: "bluee",
}

let { namee } = person;;;
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- This might be used more often than the `w` command so learn it well!

## Exercise 05 - Reviewing

The goal of the fifth exercise is to reflect on what commands you know so far.

Oh no! A virus affected our text file again by adding random "~"s mixed throughout it. Can you remove them?

1. Start with the cursor on the first line.
2. Use the `e` command to move to the "~".
3. Ex-out the "~" with the `x` command.
4. Repeat until you remove all "~".

<!-- Text for exercise starts

- `h` moves left toward~ the *house*
- `j` moves~ down (*jumping*~ off a ledge)
- `k` moves up~ (*kicking* a soccer ball upward)
- `l` moves right~ (*left*to right, like English)
- `i` lets me *insert* text~
- `a` lets me insert text *after* the cursor
- `I` lets me *Initially* insert text~
- `A` lets me~ *Append* text
- `x` lets me *ex-out* a~ character
- `r` lets me *replace*~ a character
- `o` ~inserts a line below the *original* line
- `O` inserts a~ line *Over* the current line
- `w` moves word~ by word
- `e` moves *end* of word~ by end of word

Text for exercise ends -->

## Command Complete 🎉

Congrats! You did it ✅.

You have mastered the `e` command.

14/22 commands done.

### Reflecting

Reflecting on what you've learned so far, think about these questions and pretend you're explaining them to someone who is new to Vim.

- What is the `e` command used for?
- In which mode do you use it?
- How is it different compared to the `w` command?