# Command - `b`

> Moving backwards with `b`

The `b` command allows you to move backwards, word by word in normal mode.

A good way to remember it is `b` for *back-words*.

## Exercise 01  - Backwards Reading

The goal of the first exercise is to introduce you to the `b` command.

1. Start with the cursor on the first line.
2. Hit the `A` command to go to the end.
3. Hit `esc`.
4. Use the `b` command to move backwards and read the sentence.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

.sentence this read can you then ,backwards move and `b` use you If

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- `b` the b is a more efficient way to go left (as opposed to `h` which can be slow). Know when to use each!
- Look down at your fingers briefly to identify which finger you're using to hit the `b` key. For me, I use my right index finger.

## Exercise 02 - ?Words Many How

The goal of the second exercise is to learn how you can combine `b` with numbers.

1. Look at the symbols again and guess how my times you will hit `b` to move from the "." to the "A".
2. Write down your guess after "Guess:".
3. Move the cursor to the line with symbols and use `b` to move backwards.
4. Add the result after "Result:".
5. After, Repeat Steps 3, but prefix the `b` command with the result (e.g. `1b`).

<!-- Text for exercise starts

Guess:

. ? & * hello #$% ^& A

Result:

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Similar to `w`, combining with a number like `2` can move you backwards 2x as fast.

## Exercise 03  - Fix the Docs

The goal of the third exercise is to practice moving quickly with the `b`.

We're releasing our API docs tomorrow, but no one checked for typos! We need this done soon. Can you double-check them for typos?

1. Start at the end of the markdown block on the double-exclamation.
2. Use the `x` to remove typos and the `b` to move backwards.
3. Fix all the typos

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```markdown
# AAPI Docs

These are the really important API docs for our oopen source library.. AAs you can tell,,, they're meant ttto teach you everything you nneed to know tto use it..

Open to contributions!!
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Speed will come with time!

## Exercise 04 - Function the Fix

The goal of the fourth exercise is to use the `b` command with some JavaScript code.

Your function looks a little funny, no? Can you fix the typos?

1. Start with the cursor on Line 97.
2. Use the `b` command to move from the bottom of the function to the top.
3. Fix the typos.

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
function buildDogg(name) {
    rreturn {
        nname,
        type:: "caninee",
        breed:: "goldenn",
    }
}
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Be mindful of the cursor position as you move from the bottom upwards.

## Exercise 05 - Reviewing

The goal of the fifth exercise is to reflect on what commands you know so far.

Oh no! Another virus affected our text file by adding random "~"s mixed throughout it. Can you remove them?

1. Start with the cursor at the end of the first line.
2. Use the `b` command to move to the "~".
3. Ex-out the "~" with the `x` command.
4. Repeat until you remove all "~".

<!-- Text for exercise starts

- `h` moves left toward~ the *house*
- `j` moves~ down (*jumping* off a ledge)~
- `k` moves up~ (*kicking* a soccer ball upward)
- `l` moves right~ (*left*to right, like English)
- `i` lets me *insert* text~
- `a` lets me insert text *after* the cursor~
- `I` lets me~ *Initially* insert text~
- `A` lets me~ *Append* text
- `x` lets me *ex-out* a~ character
- `r` lets me *replace*~ a character
- `o` ~inserts a line below the *original* line
- `O` inserts a~ line *Over* the current line
- `w` moves word~ by word
- `e` moves *end* of word~ by end of word
- `b` moves *backwards* word by word

Text for exercise ends -->

## Command Complete 🎉

Congrats! You did it ✅.

You have mastered the `b` command.

15/22 commands done.

### Reflecting

Reflecting on what you've learned so far, answer these questions out loud and pretend you're explaining them to someone who is new to Vim.

- What is the `b` command used for?
- In which mode do you use it?
- When should you use `b` vs. `w` vs. `e`?